-----------------
Noise Bias

A better bias calibration than shown in Fig(3) can be achieved using a
parameterized model.

E.K.Hege (1989) "Notes on noise calibration of speckle imagery," in D.M. Alloin
and J.-M. Mairotti (eds.), Diffraction-Limited Imaging with Very Large
Telescopes, 113-124, Kluwer Academic Publishers.

By using their observed ICCD photon response function, authors' Fig 4, a very
useful analytic model, Hege Eq(7), can be parameterized.  The resultant \bar N
can be inferred quite accurately from the Std. Dev. of the expected debiased
spectrum, Hege Eq(8) -- Variance(\bar N) = 1. / (Std. Dev)^2 = \bar N.  This
has proven to be quite accurate when the f-dependence of bias has been
satisfactorialy flattened.  For ICCD responses such as Fig 4, it is necessary
to add a further "cylindric" term to Hege Eq(7): C exp(-(s_{xc}(90 \dg)*f)).
When this simple seven parameter (s_x s_y s_{xc} \theta A B C) model is used in
Hege Eq(8) the resulting bias is remarkably flat beyond f_c in both X and Y,
unlike residuals shown in authors' Fig 3 curve (d), and the \bar N estimated
from a Poisson statistics model is remarkable accurate. Note that prior
knowledge of \bar N is not required for the debias; the statistics of the
measurement provides it.

E.K. Hege, A. Eckart and J.C. Christou (1986) "The noise bias problem in
optical speckle imaging," in  D.L. Crawford (ed.), Instrumentation in Astronomy
VI, SPIE Vol. 627, 772-779.

discussed the effects of errors in modelling the photon bias.  Notwithstanding
the remark therein that "For bright objects, this [model based debias] is no
limitation; for faint objects it is disastrous." the objects observed in this
work are "Bright -- below 7.5 - 10 magnitude where the effect begins to be
appreciable.  In fact, Hege et al. (198) found the method useful to 11 - 13
magnitude where other video raster artifacts start to dominate. Experience
noted therein showed that the bigger problem was calibration of the
low-frequency response due to differences in seeing between program object and
reference star calibration, however this has (surprisingly) less effect on the
accuracy of estimating binaary star contrast, a point relevant to the SI
photometry which the authors discuss not at all in this work (it contributes to
a bias -- DC offset and background noise -- in the image plane.  The effect of
atmospheric seeing compensation on the photometric error depends upon how the
contrast is measured, as of course contrast can be inferred in either the
visibility or image domain.
  
Keith Hege
Steward Observatory
University of Arizona
                                             July 4, 2002

(From the referee's report of "Speckle Observations of Composite Spectrum Stars:
II. Differential Photometry of the Binary Components" (ms56199).) 
